README.md, before:

# Atkins CI

Atkins CI is a minimal runner focused on usage in local testing and
CI/CD environments. It features a nice CLI status tree, where you can
see which jobs are running, and run jobs and steps in parallel.

![](./examples/nested.yml.gif)

See pipeline examples in [./tests](./tests).

## Install

Use the following command to install, needs the latest version of Go:

```bash
go install github.com/titpetric/atkins@latest
```

```text
$ atkins --help
Usage of atkins:
  -debug
    	Print debug data
  -file string
    	Path to pipeline file (default "atkins.yml")
  -job string
    	Specific job to run
  -l	List pipeline jobs and dependencies
  -lint
    	Lint pipeline for errors
  -log string
    	Log file path for command execution (e.g., atkins.log)
```

To set up in your workspace, you'd:

- provide `atkins.yml` and invoke `atkins` or
- provide several configurations and invoke `atkins -file ${{ config }}`.

You can use `atkins -l` in a project to view the projects pipeline:

```text
$ atkins -l
Vuego CI pipeline
├─ fmt ●
│  ├─ run: goimports -w .
│  ├─ run: go fmt ./...
│  └─ run: go mod tidy
├─ test (depends_on: fmt) ●
│  ├─ task: test:build
│  └─ task: test:run
├─ docker:down ⊘
│  └─ run: docker compose down
├─ docker:up ⊘
│  └─ run: docker compose up -d --wait --remove-orphans
├─ test:build ⊘
│  └─ run: go-fsck test -cover -coverpkg=./... -c -o bin/ ./...
├─ test:detail ⊘
│  ├─ run: mkdir -p coverage/${{item}}
│  └─ run: ./bin/${{ item }} -test.coverprofile "./coverage/${{item}}/${{ funcName }}.cov" -test.run "^${{ funcName }}$"  (0/0)
└─ test:run ⊘
   ├─ task: docker:up
   ├─ run: rm -rf coverage
   ├─ task: test:detail
   └─ task: docker:down
```

This example is from [titpetric/vuego/atkins.yml](https://github.com/titpetric/vuego/blob/main/atkins.yml).
Since the pipeline doesn't have a `default` job, the list shows which root tasks would be run on start.

## Design

The design was heavily influenced by [Taskfile](https://taskfile.dev)
and GitHub Actions. The main intent of the tool is to run a single
pipeline from a file, run the default job or any jobs, and nested steps
within a job.

Notable interpolation support:

- `${{ expr }}` - interpolation with double brace and $ hint.
- `$(shell)` - execution of subcommands to fill data

This achieves two things:

- Atkins variable interpolation not conflicting with bash `${var}`,
- Atkins interpolation and shell exec is nicely parsed with YAML.

Notably, it's been my ongoing issue with Taskfiles to nicely wrap bash,
without adding complexity. Other things about taskfile like how it
handles env variables have lead to the decision that we don't.

Atkins passes along the environment and doesn't manage environment
propagation. The complete pipeline runs using same environment vars.

## Status

The project is inspired by by GHA, Drone CI, Taskfile.

The main problem the project tries to work around is very awkward
taskfiles that end up looking like this:

```yaml
version: '3'

tasks:
  default:
    desc: 'Check last BRZINA message and send reply if needed'
    vars:
      TARGET_NUMBER: '13909'
      TRIGGER_PATTERN: 'BRZINA'
      RESPONSE_MESSAGE: 'brzina'
    cmds:
      - |
        LAST_BRZINA=$(./tp-link-cli sms list --json | jq -r '.[] | select(.content | contains("{{.TRIGGER_PATTERN}}")) | .receivedTime' | head -1)
        LAST_SENT=$(./tp-link-cli sms list --folder=sent --json | jq -r '.[] | select(.to == "{{.TARGET_NUMBER}}") | .sendTime' | head -1)

        echo "Last BRZINA received: $LAST_BRZINA"
        echo "Last response sent: $LAST_SENT"

        if [ -z "$LAST_SENT" ] || [ "$LAST_SENT" -lt "$LAST_BRZINA" ]; then
          ./tp-link-cli sms send {{.TARGET_NUMBER}} "{{.RESPONSE_MESSAGE}}"
          ./tp-link-cli sms send 0038631234567 "Quota router reset after 200G limit."
        else
          echo "Already responded to this message"
        fi
```

While this would arguably be nicer in a bash script (yaml wrapping bash goes hard). Consider the yamlexpr version:

```yaml
trigger_match: BRZINA
target_number: 13909
target_message: brzina

last_inbox_match: $(./tp-link-cli sms list --json | jq -r '.[] | select(.content | contains("${{ trigger_match }}")) | .receivedTime' | head -1)
last_sent_match: $(./tp-link-cli sms list --folder=sent --json | jq -r '.[] | select(.to == "${{ target_number }}") | .sendTime' | head -1)

tasks:
  default:
    desc: "Check last inbox match and send reply if needed"
    if: last_sent_match < last_inbox_match
    cmds:
      - ./tp-link-cli sms send ${{ target_number }} "{{ target_message }}"
      - ./tp-link-cli sms send 0038631234567 "Quota router reset after 200G limit."
```

The intent is also to consume yaml/json/text with `$(...)` syntax, like bash does.

```yaml
messages:
  - for: message in $(./tp-link-cli sms list --json)
    message: ${{ message }}
```

This can support `curl` or [titpetric/etl](https://github.com/titpetric/etl) for example.

## Design

The Taskfile flavored options for the runner are:

```yaml
name: string

tasks:
  <name>:
    desc: ...
    cmd: optional
    cmds:
      - <cmd>
      - cmd: <cmd>
```

The alternative is GHA flavored:

```yaml
name: string

jobs:
  <name>:
    runs_on: ubuntu-latest
    container: sourcegraph/scip-go
    steps:
      - uses: (yamlexpr include: if needed)
      - name: step name
        run: <cmd>

    services:
      redis:
        image: redis
        options: >-
          --health-cmd "redis-cli ping" --health-interval 10s --health-timeout 5s --health-retries 5
        ports:
          - 6379:6379
```

And Drone CI flavoured:

```yaml
workspace:
  base: /app

kind: pipeline
name: string

steps:
  - {name, image, pull, commands: [<cmd>...]}
  - ...

services: ((simplify: compose.ci.yml))?
  (( follows compose.yml formatting )).
```

So a summary of the formats is:

- should be documentation friendly (name, desc)
- should provide or include a service description (docker compose, optional)
- should allow to run multiple commands (steps, commands, cmds, depends_on, detach)
- in case of docker, ideally network env is a docker net, avoiding `ports` definitions

In practice, Atkins still needs to orchestrate:

- start any docker services (with or without `--wait`) (optional, GHA could use `services:`, problem domain is what you run in local),
- shell commands, asume json outputs (`docker compose inspect`, `docker compose config`, `curl`, `jq`, `tool --json`...)
- drone is "flat" in the sense that it just gives you a steps: []step (1 file, sequential pipeline).
- git devops triggers? Atkins doesn't really care about those, you integrate it in your runtime env which does
- add documentation for running in environment of choice (GHA,...).

Drone is actually the simple approach, as it gives you a file for each
pipeline. Yamlexpr supports include, so the question is, can we compose
multiple pipelines from individual files.

```yaml
name: ...

jobs:
  include: master/*.yml
```

With this, it's desired that each yml file has a root key with the name of the job:

```yaml
test:
  {runs_on, image, container, plugin...}: <val>
  steps: ...
  services: ...
```

So each pipeline will have 1) services, 2) steps, 3) runtime docker environment info (image:...).
The services should be reachable from `cmd/cmds/steps` by it's name, so a docker network is shared.

If steps don't run in a docker env, then they would need to rely on localhost.

## Task Invocation with For Loops

You can invoke tasks within a for loop to run the same task multiple times with different loop variables. This is useful for processing multiple items in parallel.

### Basic Example

```yaml
vars:
  components:
    - src/main
    - src/utils
    - tests/

tasks:
  build:
    desc: "Build all components"
    steps:
      - for: component in components
        task: build_component

  build_component:
    desc: "Build a single component"
    requires: [component]  # Declare required variables
    steps:
      - run: make build -C "${{ component }}"
```

### How It Works

1. **For Loop in Step**: A step can have both `for:` and `task:` fields
   - `for: variable in collection` - Defines the loop pattern
   - `task: task_name` - Names the task to invoke

2. **Loop Variables**: The loop variable becomes available to the invoked task
   - Use `${{ variable_name }}` to reference the loop variable
   - Loop variables are merged with existing context variables

3. **Requires Declaration**: Tasks can declare required variables with `requires: [...]`
   - When invoked in a loop, the task validates that all required variables are present
   - If a required variable is missing, execution fails with a clear error message
   - `requires` is optional; omit it if the task doesn't require specific variables

### Advanced Example

```yaml
vars:
  environments:
    - dev
    - staging
    - prod
  service_version: 1.2.3

tasks:
  deploy_all:
    desc: "Deploy to all environments"
    steps:
      - for: env in environments
        task: deploy_service

  deploy_service:
    desc: "Deploy to a specific environment"
    requires: [env, service_version]
    steps:
      - run: kubectl apply -f config/${{ env }}/deployment.yml --image=app:${{ service_version }}
```

### Error Handling

If a task has `requires: [var1, var2]` but one of those variables is missing from the loop context:

```
job 'deploy_service' requires variables [env service_version] but missing: [env]
```

The execution stops with a clear message listing the missing variables.

Commit message:

Move installation docs to docs/

README.md, after:

# Atkins CI

Atkins CI is a minimal runner focused on usage in local testing and
CI/CD environments. It features a nice CLI status tree, where you can
see which jobs are running, and run jobs and steps in parallel.

![](./examples/nested.yml.gif)

To install the tool, see the [installation guide](./docs/install.md).

See pipeline examples in [./tests](./tests).

## Usage

```text
$ atkins --help
Usage of atkins:
  -debug
    	Print debug data
  -file string
    	Path to pipeline file (default "atkins.yml")
  -job string
    	Specific job to run
  -l	List pipeline jobs and dependencies
  -lint
    	Lint pipeline for errors
  -log string
    	Log file path for command execution (e.g., atkins.log)
```

To set up in your workspace, you'd:

- provide `atkins.yml` and invoke `atkins` or
- provide several configurations and invoke `atkins -file ${{ config }}`,
- use `#!/usr/bin/env atkins` and provide executable pipelines

You can use `atkins -l` in a project to view the projects pipeline:

```text
$ atkins -l
Vuego CI pipeline
├─ fmt ●
│  ├─ run: goimports -w .
│  ├─ run: go fmt ./...
│  └─ run: go mod tidy
├─ test (depends_on: fmt) ●
│  ├─ task: test:build
│  └─ task: test:run
├─ docker:down ⊘
│  └─ run: docker compose down
├─ docker:up ⊘
│  └─ run: docker compose up -d --wait --remove-orphans
├─ test:build ⊘
│  └─ run: go-fsck test -cover -coverpkg=./... -c -o bin/ ./...
├─ test:detail ⊘
│  ├─ run: mkdir -p coverage/${{item}}
│  └─ run: ./bin/${{ item }} -test.coverprofile "./coverage/${{item}}/${{ funcName }}.cov" -test.run "^${{ funcName }}$"  (0/0)
└─ test:run ⊘
   ├─ task: docker:up
   ├─ run: rm -rf coverage
   ├─ task: test:detail
   └─ task: docker:down
```

This example is from [titpetric/vuego/atkins.yml](https://github.com/titpetric/vuego/blob/main/atkins.yml).
Since the pipeline doesn't have a `default` job, the list shows which root tasks would be run on start.

## Design

The design was heavily influenced by [Taskfile](https://taskfile.dev)
and GitHub Actions. The main intent of the tool is to run a single
pipeline from a file, run the default job or any jobs, and nested steps
within a job.

Notable interpolation support:

- `${{ expr }}` - interpolation with double brace and $ hint.
- `$(shell)` - execution of subcommands to fill data

This achieves two things:

- Atkins variable interpolation not conflicting with bash `${var}`,
- Atkins interpolation and shell exec is nicely parsed with YAML.

Notably, it's been my ongoing issue with Taskfiles to nicely wrap bash,
without adding complexity. Other things about taskfile like how it
handles env variables have lead to the decision that we don't.

Atkins passes along the environment and doesn't manage environment
propagation. The complete pipeline runs using same environment vars.

## Status

The project is inspired by by GHA, Drone CI, Taskfile.

The main problem the project tries to work around is very awkward
taskfiles that end up looking like this:

```yaml
version: '3'

tasks:
  default:
    desc: 'Check last BRZINA message and send reply if needed'
    vars:
      TARGET_NUMBER: '13909'
      TRIGGER_PATTERN: 'BRZINA'
      RESPONSE_MESSAGE: 'brzina'
    cmds:
      - |
        LAST_BRZINA=$(./tp-link-cli sms list --json | jq -r '.[] | select(.content | contains("{{.TRIGGER_PATTERN}}")) | .receivedTime' | head -1)
        LAST_SENT=$(./tp-link-cli sms list --folder=sent --json | jq -r '.[] | select(.to == "{{.TARGET_NUMBER}}") | .sendTime' | head -1)

        echo "Last BRZINA received: $LAST_BRZINA"
        echo "Last response sent: $LAST_SENT"

        if [ -z "$LAST_SENT" ] || [ "$LAST_SENT" -lt "$LAST_BRZINA" ]; then
          ./tp-link-cli sms send {{.TARGET_NUMBER}} "{{.RESPONSE_MESSAGE}}"
          ./tp-link-cli sms send 0038631234567 "Quota router reset after 200G limit."
        else
          echo "Already responded to this message"
        fi
```

While this would arguably be nicer in a bash script (yaml wrapping bash goes hard). Consider the yamlexpr version:

```yaml
trigger_match: BRZINA
target_number: 13909
target_message: brzina

last_inbox_match: $(./tp-link-cli sms list --json | jq -r '.[] | select(.content | contains("${{ trigger_match }}")) | .receivedTime' | head -1)
last_sent_match: $(./tp-link-cli sms list --folder=sent --json | jq -r '.[] | select(.to == "${{ target_number }}") | .sendTime' | head -1)

tasks:
  default:
    desc: "Check last inbox match and send reply if needed"
    if: last_sent_match < last_inbox_match
    cmds:
      - ./tp-link-cli sms send ${{ target_number }} "{{ target_message }}"
      - ./tp-link-cli sms send 0038631234567 "Quota router reset after 200G limit."
```

The intent is also to consume yaml/json/text with `$(...)` syntax, like bash does.

```yaml
messages:
  - for: message in $(./tp-link-cli sms list --json)
    message: ${{ message }}
```

This can support `curl` or [titpetric/etl](https://github.com/titpetric/etl) for example.

## Design

The Taskfile flavored options for the runner are:

```yaml
name: string

tasks:
  <name>:
    desc: ...
    cmd: optional
    cmds:
      - <cmd>
      - cmd: <cmd>
```

The alternative is GHA flavored:

```yaml
name: string

jobs:
  <name>:
    runs_on: ubuntu-latest
    container: sourcegraph/scip-go
    steps:
      - uses: (yamlexpr include: if needed)
      - name: step name
        run: <cmd>

    services:
      redis:
        image: redis
        options: >-
          --health-cmd "redis-cli ping" --health-interval 10s --health-timeout 5s --health-retries 5
        ports:
          - 6379:6379
```

And Drone CI flavoured:

```yaml
workspace:
  base: /app

kind: pipeline
name: string

steps:
  - {name, image, pull, commands: [<cmd>...]}
  - ...

services: ((simplify: compose.ci.yml))?
  (( follows compose.yml formatting )).
```

So a summary of the formats is:

- should be documentation friendly (name, desc)
- should provide or include a service description (docker compose, optional)
- should allow to run multiple commands (steps, commands, cmds, depends_on, detach)
- in case of docker, ideally network env is a docker net, avoiding `ports` definitions

In practice, Atkins still needs to orchestrate:

- start any docker services (with or without `--wait`) (optional, GHA could use `services:`, problem domain is what you run in local),
- shell commands, asume json outputs (`docker compose inspect`, `docker compose config`, `curl`, `jq`, `tool --json`...)
- drone is "flat" in the sense that it just gives you a steps: []step (1 file, sequential pipeline).
- git devops triggers? Atkins doesn't really care about those, you integrate it in your runtime env which does
- add documentation for running in environment of choice (GHA,...).

Drone is actually the simple approach, as it gives you a file for each
pipeline. Yamlexpr supports include, so the question is, can we compose
multiple pipelines from individual files.

```yaml
name: ...

jobs:
  include: master/*.yml
```

With this, it's desired that each yml file has a root key with the name of the job:

```yaml
test:
  {runs_on, image, container, plugin...}: <val>
  steps: ...
  services: ...
```

So each pipeline will have 1) services, 2) steps, 3) runtime docker environment info (image:...).
The services should be reachable from `cmd/cmds/steps` by it's name, so a docker network is shared.

If steps don't run in a docker env, then they would need to rely on localhost.

## Task Invocation with For Loops

You can invoke tasks within a for loop to run the same task multiple times with different loop variables. This is useful for processing multiple items in parallel.

### Basic Example

```yaml
vars:
  components:
    - src/main
    - src/utils
    - tests/

tasks:
  build:
    desc: "Build all components"
    steps:
      - for: component in components
        task: build_component

  build_component:
    desc: "Build a single component"
    requires: [component]  # Declare required variables
    steps:
      - run: make build -C "${{ component }}"
```

### How It Works

1. **For Loop in Step**: A step can have both `for:` and `task:` fields
   - `for: variable in collection` - Defines the loop pattern
   - `task: task_name` - Names the task to invoke

2. **Loop Variables**: The loop variable becomes available to the invoked task
   - Use `${{ variable_name }}` to reference the loop variable
   - Loop variables are merged with existing context variables

3. **Requires Declaration**: Tasks can declare required variables with `requires: [...]`
   - When invoked in a loop, the task validates that all required variables are present
   - If a required variable is missing, execution fails with a clear error message
   - `requires` is optional; omit it if the task doesn't require specific variables

### Advanced Example

```yaml
vars:
  environments:
    - dev
    - staging
    - prod
  service_version: 1.2.3

tasks:
  deploy_all:
    desc: "Deploy to all environments"
    steps:
      - for: env in environments
        task: deploy_service

  deploy_service:
    desc: "Deploy to a specific environment"
    requires: [env, service_version]
    steps:
      - run: kubectl apply -f config/${{ env }}/deployment.yml --image=app:${{ service_version }}
```

### Error Handling

If a task has `requires: [var1, var2]` but one of those variables is missing from the loop context:

```
job 'deploy_service' requires variables [env service_version] but missing: [env]
```

The execution stops with a clear message listing the missing variables.
